Welcome back, we already discussing
Classification models and techniques for
next few lectures.
Let's first define what
the classification task is,
after this video you will be able
to define what classification is.
Explain whether classification is
supervised or unsupervised and
describe how binomial classification
differs from multinomial classification.
Classification is one type of
machine learning problems.
In the classification problem, the input
data is presented to the machine learning
model and the task is to predict the
target corresponding to the input data.
The target is a categorical variable,
so the classification task is
to predict the category or
label of the target given the input data.
For example, the classification
problem illustrated in this image
is to predict the type of weather.
The target that the model has to predict
is the weather and the possible values for
weather in this case is Sunny,
Windy, Rainy, or Cloudy.
The input data can consist of measurements
like temperature, relative humidity,
atmospheric pressure,
wind speed, wind direction, etc.
So, given specific values for temperature,
relative humidity, atmospheric pressure,
etc., the task for the model is to
predict if the weather will be sunny.
Windy, rainy, or cloudy for the day,
this is what the data set might look like
for the weather classification problem.
Each row is a sample with input
variables temperature, humidity, and
pressure and target variable weather.
Each row has specific values for
the input variables and
a corresponding value for
the target variable.
The classification task is to predict
the value of the target variable
from the values of the input variables.
Since a target is provided,
we have labeled data and so
classification is a supervised task.
Recall that in a supervised task,
the target or
desired output for each sample is given.
Note that the target variable goes
by many names such as target,
label, output, class variable,
category, and class.
A classification problem can be binary or
multi-class with binary
classification the target variable has two
possible values, for example yes and no.
With multi-class classification
the target variable has more than
two possible values.
For example, the target can be short,
medium and tall.
Multi-class classification is
also referred to multinomial or
multi-label classification.
Remember though that the target is always
a categorical variable in classification.
Some examples of binary
classification are predicting
whether it will rain tomorrow or not,
here there are two possible outcomes,
yes it will rain tomorrow or
no, it will not rain tomorrow.
Identifying whether a credit card
transaction is legitimate or fraudulent,
again, there are only two possible values
for the target, legitimate or fraudulent.
Some examples of multi-class
classification include
predicting what type of product
that a customer will buy.
The possible values for
the target variables would be product
categories such as kitchen,
electronics, clothes, etc.
There is more than one
category of products, so
this is a multi-class
classification problem.
Another example is categorizing a tweet
as having a positive, negative, or
neutral sentiment, again,
the number of possible values for
the target is more than two here.
So, this is also a multi-class
classification task
to summarize in classification,
the model has to predict the category
corresponding to the input data.
Since the target is provided for each
sample, classification is a supervised
task, the target variable is always
categorical in classification.